Logic Specification for ACIP Recommendations v4.6 
Page 25 of 151 
 
3.3 SELECTING SUPPORTING DATA 
When a clinical recommendation is changed, it is typically applied to patient evaluation and forecasting 
retroactively but, depending on the nature of the change, the evaluation status of administered doses may or 
may not change.  For example, if a recommendation changed the minimum interval from 6 months to 4 months, 
previously administered doses that met the 6 month interval requirement are still considered valid when the new 
4 month interval is applied. For this reason, many recommendations changes are instituted in new published 
versions of the Supporting Data simply as a new value with no indication of the previous value.  
However, some recommendation changes are not applied retroactively, and historical Supporting Data must be 
retained and selectively applied during the evaluation and forecasting processes. For example, prior to the ACIP 
HPV recommendation published 12/16/2016, the absolute minimum interval between Doses 1 and 3 was 16 
weeks but the recommendation increased the absolute minimum interval to 5 months minus 4 days. However, 
the change was not applied retroactively. Therefore, a third dose administered prior to 12/16/2016 need only 
meet the 16-week interval while a third dose (for a different patient) administered on or after 12/16/2016 would 
need to meet the longer 5 month interval. In the figure below, these differential requirements are represented, 
highlighted in blue, in the Supporting Data using Effective and Cessation Dates which indicate a date range that 
the Supporting Data component was in effect.  
Only a subset of the Supporting Data Logical Components use Effective and Cessation Dates elements (e.g. 
Age, Preferable Interval, Allowable Interval and Conditional Skip). When a Logical Component does not include 

Logic Specification for ACIP Recommendations v4.6 
Page 26 of 151 
 
Effective and Cessation Dates elements (e.g. Preferable Vaccine, Allowable Vaccine, Inadvertent Vaccine, 
Recurring Dose and Seasonal Recommendation), the Instances of supporting data in that Logical Component 
must be selected for evaluation and forecasting purposes. 
In order to determine if a Supporting Data Logical Component Instance is relevant, the anchor date (the 
administration date in the case of an evaluation or the assessment date in the case of a forecast) must fall 
between the Effective and Cessation Dates (see decision table below) for the Supporting Data. This selection 
process must be applied any time either the Effective Date or Cessation Date is valued other than “n/a” in the 
Supporting Data as highlighted in red below. Data Instances where both valued “n/a” must be always be applied 
during the evaluation and forecasting process. 
 
FIGURE 3-2 SELECTING SUPPORTING DATA 
 
TABLE 3-4 RELEVANT SUPPORTING DATA ATTRIBUTES 
Attribute Type 
Attribute Name 
Assumed Value if Empty 
Vaccine dose administered 
Date Administered 
- 
Runtime data 
Assessment Date 
current date 
Supporting Data (Effective Date) 
Effective Date 
01/01/1900 
Supporting Data (Cessation Date) 
Cessation Date 
12/31/2999 
 
TABLE 3-5 SELECT RELEVANT SUPPORTING DATA LOGICAL COMPONENT ELEMENT 
Business Rule ID 
Business Rule 
RELEVANT-1  
A logical component instance must be used in evaluation if one of the following is true: 
• 
the effective date and cessation date are both 'n/a' 
• 
the date administered is on or after the effective date and on or before the cessation date.  
RELEVANT-2  
A logical component instance must be used in forecasting or selecting the best patient series if one of the 
following is true: 
• 
the effective date and cessation date are both 'n/a' 
• 
the assessment date is on or after the effective date and on or before the cessation date.  
 
In addition to Supporting Data selection by Effective and Cessation Dates, relevant Conditional Skip Logic 
Component Instances must be selected on the basis of context. In some scenarios, the rationale for skipping a 
dose in a series differs depending on whether a retrospective evaluation or a prospective forecast is being 
performed. In the Supporting Data, 4 contexts are possible: 
• 
Evaluation – applicable when a dose is being evaluated (see section 6.2) 
• 
Forecast – applicable when a dose is being forecasted (see section 7.1) 
• 
Both – applicable when a dose is being either evaluated or forecasted (see sections 6.2 and 7.1) 
• 
n/a – there are no conditions that can result in a dose being skipped during either evaluation or forecast 

 
FIGURE 3-3 CONDITIONAL SKIP CONTEXT
