Logic Specification for ACIP Recommendations v4.6 
Page 27 of 151 
 
3.4 DATE CALCULATIONS 
Business rules that are specific to calculating dates are provided in this section. A calculated date is a date that 
is mathematically derived from one or more terms. The first table provides rules for calculating dates in general. 
The second table provides rules for calculating dates by logical component. 
TABLE 3-6 GENERAL DATE RULES 
Business Rule ID 
Business Rule 
Example 
CALCDT-1  
The computed date of adding any number of years to an existing 
date must be calculated by incrementing the date-year while 
holding the date-month and date-day constant.  
01/01/2000 + 3 years = 01/01/2003  
CALCDT-2  
The computed date of adding any number of months to an existing 
date must be calculated by incrementing the date-month (and date-
year, if necessary) while holding the date-day constant.  
01/01/2000 + 6 months = 07/01/2000  
11/01/2000 + 6 months = 05/01/2001  
CALCDT-3  
The computed date of adding any number of weeks or days to an 
existing date must be calculated by adding the total days to the 
existing date.  
01/01/2000 + 3 days = 01/04/2000  
01/01/2000 + 3 weeks = 01/22/2000  
02/01/2000 + 5 weeks = 03/07/2000 
(leap year)  
02/01/2001 + 5 weeks = 03/08/2001 
(not a leap year)  
CALCDT-4  
The computed date of subtracting any number of days from an 
existing date must be calculated by subtracting the total days from 
the existing date.  
01/15/2000 – 4 days = 01/11/2000  
CALCDT-5  
A computed date which is not a real date must be moved forward 
to first day of the next month.  
03/31/2000 + 6 months = 10/01/2000 
(September 31 does not exist)  
08/31/20010 + 6 months = 
03/01/2001 (February 31 does not 
exist)  
CALCDT-6  
A computed date must be calculated by first adjusting the years, 
followed by the months, and finally the weeks and/or days.  
01/31/2000 + 6 months – 4 days = 
07/27/2000  
 

Logic Specification for ACIP Recommendations v4.6 
Page 28 of 151 
 
TABLE 3-7 LOGICAL COMPONENT DATE RULES 
Business Rule ID 
Business Rule 
CALCDTAGE-1  
A patient's maximum age date must be calculated as the patient's date of birth plus the maximum age.  
CALCDTAGE-2  
A patient's latest recommended age date must be calculated as the patient's date of birth plus the latest 
recommended age.  
CALCDTAGE-3  
A patient's earliest recommended age date must be calculated as the patient's date of birth plus the earliest 
recommended age.  
CALCDTAGE-4  
A patient's minimum age date must be calculated as the patient's date of birth plus the minimum age.  
CALCDTAGE-5  
A patient's absolute minimum age date must be calculated as the patient's date of birth plus the absolute 
minimum age.  
CALCDTALLOW-1  
A patient's allowable vaccine type begin age date must be calculated as the patient's date of birth plus the 
vaccine type begin age of an allowable vaccine.  
CALCDTALLOW-2  
A patient's allowable vaccine type end age date must be calculated as the patient's date of birth plus the 
vaccine type end age of an allowable vaccine.  
CALCDTCI-1  
A patient's contraindication begin age date must be calculated as the patient's date of birth plus the 
contraindication begin age of a contraindication.  
CALCDTCI-2  
A patient's contraindication end age date must be calculated as the patient's date of birth plus the 
contraindication end age of a contraindication.  
CALCDTCONFLICT-1  
The conflict begin interval date for a previous vaccine dose administered must be calculated as the date 
administered of the previous vaccine dose administered plus the conflict begin interval of a vaccine type 
conflict where all the following are true: 
• 
The vaccine type of the current vaccine dose administered is an impacted vaccine type.  
• 
The vaccine type of the previous vaccine dose administered is a conflicting vaccine type for the 
impacted vaccine type.  
CALCDTCONFLICT-2  
The conflict end interval date for a previous vaccine dose administered must be calculated as one of the 
following: 
• 
the date administered of the previous vaccine dose administered plus the minimum conflict end 
interval of a vaccine type conflict if all the following are true:  
o 
The vaccine type of the current vaccine dose administered is an impacted vaccine type.  
o 
The vaccine type of the previous vaccine dose administered is a conflicting vaccine type 
for the impacted vaccine type.  
o 
The previous vaccine dose administered has one of the following: 
▪ 
an evaluation status of 'Valid' 
▪ 
no evaluation status. 
• 
the date administered of the previous vaccine dose administered plus the conflict end interval of a 
vaccine type conflict if all the following are true:  
o 
The vaccine type of the current vaccine dose administered is an impacted vaccine type.  
o 
The vaccine type of the previous vaccine dose administered is a conflicting vaccine type 
for the impacted vaccine type.  
o 
The previous vaccine dose administered has an evaluation status. 
o 
The previous vaccine dose administered does not have an evaluation status of 'Valid'. 
CALCDTCONFLICT-3  
The forecast conflict end date of a vaccine type conflict that impacts a next target dose must be calculated 
as the date administered of a vaccine dose administered plus the conflict end interval of the vaccine type 
conflict if all the following are true: 
• 
The next target dose is tracked by a series dose that includes a preferable vaccine that is 
classified by an impacted vaccine type.  
• 
The vaccine type of the vaccine dose administered is a conflicting vaccine type for the impacted 
vaccine type.  

Logic Specification for ACIP Recommendations v4.6 
Page 29 of 151 
 
Business Rule ID 
Business Rule 
CALCDTIND-1  
A patient's indication begin age date must be calculated as the patient's date of birth plus the indication begin 
age of an indication.  
CALCDTIND-2  
A patient's indication end age date must be calculated as the patient's date of birth plus the indication end 
age of an indication.  
CALCDTINT-1  
A patient's reference dose date for an interval must be calculated as the date administered of the most 
immediate previous vaccine dose administered if all the following are true: 
• 
The interval has a from immediate previous dose administered flag of 'Y' 
• 
The vaccine dose administered has an evaluation status of 'Valid' or 'Not Valid' 
• 
The vaccine dose administered is not an inadvertent administration. 
CALCDTINT-2  
A patient's reference dose date for an interval must be calculated as the date administered of the vaccine 
dose administered that satisfies the target dose with the same target dose number as the from target dose 
number in series if all the following are true for the interval: 
• 
From immediate previous dose administered flag is 'N' 
• 
From target dose number in series is not 'n/a' 
CALCDTINT-3  
A patient's absolute minimum interval date must be calculated as the patient's reference dose date plus the 
absolute minimum interval.  
CALCDTINT-4  
A patient's minimum interval date must be calculated as the patient's reference dose date plus the minimum 
interval.  
CALCDTINT-5  
A patient's earliest recommended interval date must be calculated as the patient's reference dose date plus 
the earliest recommended interval.  
CALCDTINT-6  
A patient's latest recommended interval date must be calculated as the patient's reference dose date plus 
the latest recommended interval.  
CALCDTINT-8  
A patient's reference dose date for an interval must be calculated as the date administered of the most recent 
vaccine dose administered that is the same vaccine type as the from most recent vaccine type if all the 
following are true for the interval: 
• 
From immediate previous dose administered flag is 'N' 
• 
From most recent vaccine type is not 'n/a' 
• 
The vaccine dose administered is not an inadvertent administration. 
CALCDTINT-9  
A patient's reference dose date for an interval must be calculated as the observation date of the most recent 
active patient observation if all the following are true for the interval: 
• 
From immediate previous dose administered flag is 'N' 
• 
From relevant observation code is not 'n/a' 
CALCDTLOTEXP-1  
The lot number expiration date must be one of the following: 
• 
Lot number expiration date if the month, day, and year are all known. 
• 
Last day of the month if only the month and year are known. 
CALCDTPREF-1  
A patient's preferable vaccine type begin age date must be calculated as the patient's date of birth plus the 
vaccine type begin age of a preferable vaccine.  
CALCDTPREF-2  
A patient's preferable vaccine type end age date must be calculated as the patient's date of birth plus the 
vaccine type end age of a preferable vaccine.  
CALCDTSKIP-3  
A patient's conditional skip begin age date must be calculated as the patient's date of birth plus the 
conditional skip begin age of a conditional skip.  
CALCDTSKIP-4  
A patient's conditional skip end age date must be calculated as the patient's date of birth plus the conditional 
skip end age of a conditional skip.  
CALCDTSKIP-5  
A patient's conditional skip interval date must be calculated as the vaccine date administered from the 
immediate previous vaccine dose administered plus the Interval of the conditional skip condition.
