Logic Specification for ACIP Recommendations v4.6 
Page 23 of 151 
 
3.1 TARGET DOSE  
Target dose is a term used often in the Logic Specification document.  A target dose is a patient-specific dose 
required to satisfy the recommendations of ACIP.  Until a target dose is satisfied, the patient is not allowed to 
move to the next target dose in the patient series.  The patient remains on the “unsatisfied” target dose until the 
patient has a “valid” vaccine dose administered that satisfies the target dose.  A target dose is also allowed to 
be skipped. This situation isn’t the common path and not immediately discussed here.  Details on skipping target 
doses can be found in Chapters 6 and 7. 
This concept can be seen graphically below in Figure 3-1.  For simplicity in this hypothetical patient series, the 
target doses are defined only by the minimum age.  The target doses have minimum ages of 0 days, 2 months, 
and 6 months.  These are the minimum ages allowed by this patient series.  The patient must have vaccine 
doses administered on or after these minimum ages to be considered valid.  A valid vaccine dose administered 
will satisfy a target dose and allow movement to the next target dose.  A vaccine dose administered which is 
anything but valid does not satisfy a target dose and does not allow movement to the next target dose.   
This can be seen in Figure 3-1 by looking at target dose 2 and vaccine doses administered dose 2 and dose 3. 
Dose 2 was administered too early and resulted in the evaluation status “not valid.”   A not valid vaccine dose 
administered means the target dose was not satisfied and must be repeated.  Dose 3 was given at an appropriate 
age which resulted in the evaluation status “valid” and satisfied the goals of target dose 2.  This allows movement 
to target dose 3 which is subsequently satisfied by vaccine dose administered dose 4. 
While not shown on this graphic, there is also a status which tracks the patient’s progress towards completion of 
a patient series.  In this example, the patient series status is “not complete” for the first three vaccine doses 
administered.  The patient series status is changed to “complete” once the fourth vaccine dose administered 
satisfies the third target dose which completes the patient series. 

 
FIGURE 3-1 HOW A VACCINE DOSE ADMINISTERED SATISFIES A TARGET DOSE
