Logic Specification for ACIP Recommendations v4.6 
Page 30 of 151 
 
4 PROCESSING MODEL 
At a very simple level, the major logical steps involved in the immunization evaluation and forecasting engine 
can be described in two parts.  The first part is very mechanical in nature and focuses on gathering and prepping 
all of the required data.  The second part uses the data gathered earlier to generate the evaluation and forecast.  
The following table lists the major steps of the processing model. 
TABLE 4-1 LOGIC SPECIFICATION PROCESSING STEPS 
Section 
Activity 
Goal 
4.1 
Gather Necessary Data 
The goal of this step is to gather all pertinent information which will be used in 
subsequent steps in the process. 
4.2 
Organize Immunization History 
The goal of this step is to break apart vaccine doses administered into their 
antigen parts. 
4.3 
Create Relevant Patient Series 
The goal of this step is to instantiate (Chapter 5) antigen series into relevant 
patient series for this patient. 
4.4 
Evaluate and Forecast All Patient 
Series 
The goal of this step is to evaluate (Chapter 6) each antigen administered and 
create a forecast for each relevant patient series (Chapter 7). 
4.5 
Select Best Patient Series 
The goal of this step is to select one or more best patient series (Chapter 8) for 
the patient based on their evaluated history and forecast. 
4.6 
Identify and Evaluate Vaccine Group 
The goal of this step is to merge together patient series forecasts into a vaccine 
group forecast (Chapter 9). 
 
Figure 4-1 provides the high-level process of the major steps of the processing model. 
 
FIGURE 4-1 LOGIC SPECIFICATION PROCESSING MODEL 
 

As illustrated in Figure 4-2, as the process model progresses, the set of patient series continually becomes more 
restricted as: 
• 
Relevant Patient Series are selected from the total list of Antigen Series based on standard 
recommendations, patient gender, and patient observations. 
• 
Scorable Patient Series are selected from the evaluated and forecasted Relevant Patient Series. 
• 
A Prioritized Patient Series is selected per Series Group (provided the Series Group had at least one 
Relevant Patient Series. 
• 
One or more non-redundant Best Patient Series are selected from the Prioritized Patient Series 
 
 
FIGURE 4-2 REFINEMENT OF PATIENT SERIES
