Logic Specification for ACIP Recommendations v4.6 
Page 45 of 151 
 
6 EVALUATE VACCINE DOSE ADMINISTERED  
The core of a CDS engine is the process of evaluating a single vaccine dose administered against a defined 
target dose within a relevant patient series to determine if the vaccine dose administered is “valid” or “not valid” 
for the relevant patient series. The results will ultimately determine if all requirements of the target dose are 
satisfied. This can be accomplished by breaking the evaluation process into simple logical components.  After 
processing each logical component, the results of those logical components are used to determine if the vaccine 
dose administered satisfies the goals of the target dose. 
Each logical component has its own set of business rules that are used to determine if a target dose is “satisfied.” 
These business rules are documented using business rules and decision tables. (See section 2.11 to review an 
example of a decision table using a real-world scenario.) The decision table describes the way that the CDS 
engine responds to various combinations of conditions. The implementer can clearly see the set of conditions, 
how they work in combination, and what actions should be taken on a given set of conditions. 
Specific attributes and decision tables are provided for each step of the evaluation process. 
TABLE 6-1 EVALUATION PROCESS STEPS 
Section 
Activity 
Goal 
6.1 
Evaluate Dose Administered Condition The goal of this step is to determine if a vaccine dose administered can be 
evaluated. 
6.2 
Evaluate Conditional Skip 
The goal of this step is to determine if the target dose can be skipped due to a 
patient’s age or immunization history. 
6.3 
Evaluate For Inadvertent Vaccine 
The goal of this step is to determine if the vaccine dose administered was an 
inadvertent administration due to the vaccine type that was administered. 
6.4 
Evaluate Age 
The goal of this step is to determine if the vaccine dose administered was given 
at an appropriate age. 
6.5 
Evaluate Preferable Interval 
The goal of this step is to determine if the vaccine dose administered was given 
at an appropriate interval. 
6.6 
Evaluate Allowable Interval 
The goal of this step is to determine if the vaccine dose administered was given 
at an allowable interval. 
6.7 
Evaluate Vaccine Conflict 
The goal of this step is to determine if the vaccine dose administered was in 
conflict with any other vaccines. 
6.8 
Evaluate For Preferable Vaccine 
The goal of this step is to determine if the vaccine dose administered was one 
of the preferable vaccines. 
6.9 
Evaluate For Allowable Vaccine 
The goal of this step is to determine if the vaccine dose administered was one 
of the allowable vaccines. 
6.10 
Satisfy Target Dose 
The goal of this step is to determine if the target dose is satisfied. 
 
 

 
FIGURE 6-1 EVALUATION PROCESS MODEL
