Logic Specification for ACIP Recommendations v4.6 
Page 94 of 151 
 
9.1 APPLY GENERAL VACCINE GROUP RULES 
Apply general vaccine group rules provides the business rules which are applied to both types of vaccine groups 
(i.e., Single Antigen and Multiple Antigen). Finally, this table provides rules to classify the vaccine group type 
(Single Antigen or Multiple Antigen) for subsequent business rule sections (9.2 or 9.3). 
TABLE 9-2 GENERAL VACCINE GROUP BUSINESS RULES 
Business Rule ID 
Business Rule 
FORECASTVG-1  
A patient series forecast must be contained in a vaccine group forecast made for a vaccine group if all the 
following are true: 
• 
The patient series forecast is made from a patient series that is identified as a best patient series.  
• 
The best patient series belongs to the series group for which the vaccine group forecast is being 
made.  
• 
The best patient series defines the regimen for an antigen classified by the vaccine group.  
FORECASTVG-2  
The adjusted recommended date of a vaccine group forecast must be the latest of the following dates: 
• 
The earliest adjusted recommended date of all the patient series forecasts contained in the 
vaccine group forecast.  
• 
The earliest date of the vaccine group forecast. 
FORECASTVG-3  
The adjusted past due date of a vaccine group forecast must be the latest of the following dates: 
• 
The earliest adjusted past due date of all the patient series forecasts contained in the vaccine 
group forecast.  
• 
The earliest date of the vaccine group forecast. 
FORECASTVG-4  
The latest date of a vaccine group forecast must be the earliest latest date of all the patient series 
forecasts contained in the vaccine group forecast.  
FORECASTVG-5  
The unadjusted recommended date of a vaccine group forecast must be the earliest unadjusted 
recommended date of all the patient series forecasts contained in the vaccine group forecast.  
FORECASTVG-6  
The unadjusted past due date of a vaccine group forecast must be the earliest unadjusted past due date of 
all the patient series forecasts contained in the vaccine group forecast.  
FORECASTVG-7  
The forecast reasons explaining a vaccine group forecast must be the forecast reasons of all the patient 
series forecasts contained in the vaccine group forecast.  
FORECASTVG-8  
An antigen must be considered a recommended antigen for a vaccine group forecast if all the following are 
true: 
• 
The antigen is given the regimen of a best patient series. 
• 
The best patient series is the basis of a patient series forecast contained in the vaccine group 
forecast.  
• 
The best patient series has a patient series status of 'Not Complete'. 
FORECASTVG-9  
A series dose vaccine must be considered a recommended series dose vaccine for a vaccine group 
forecast if the series dose vaccine is a recommended series dose vaccine for a patient series forecast 
contained in the vaccine group forecast.  
FORECASTDN-2  
The forecast dose number for a vaccine group forecast must be one of the following: 
• 
The minimum of the forecast dose numbers of the patient series forecasts contained in the 
vaccine group forecast if the administer full vaccine group flag is 'Y' for the vaccine group that is 
the basis of the vaccine group forecast.  
• 
The maximum of the forecast dose numbers of the patient series forecasts contained in the 
vaccine group forecast if the administer full vaccine group flag is 'N' for the vaccine group that is 
the basis of the vaccine group forecast.  
VACCINEGROUP-1  
A vaccine group must be considered a single antigen vaccine group if it classifies exactly one antigen.  

Business Rule ID 
Business Rule 
VACCINEGROUP-2  
A vaccine group must be considered a multiple antigen vaccine group if it classifies more than one antigen.
