Logic Specification for ACIP Recommendations v4.6 
Page 93 of 151 
 
9 IDENTIFY AND EVALUATE VACCINE GROUP 
Identify and evaluate vaccine group combines patient series into a vaccine group-based forecast to provide a 
common and consistent view for a forecast. In the evaluation, forecasting, and select patient series chapters, all 
logic was specified for antigens. At this point it is important to define how those antigen-based evaluation and 
forecasting results can be merged into vaccine group forecasts. For antigens which contain non-equivalent series 
groups (e.g., multiple best patient series), it is important to only blend best patient series of the same series type 
(e.g., risk with risk and standard with standard). Patients in this situation may end up with more than 1 vaccine 
group forecast for a given vaccine group (e.g., a travel-based MMR forecast and an age-based MMR forecast). 
Relationship to ACIP Recommendations 
• 
At present, MMR and DTaP/Tdap/Td vaccine groups are comprised of multiple antigens.  MMR contains 
the antigens Measles, Mumps, and Rubella.  DTaP/Tdap/Td contains the antigens Diphtheria, Tetanus, 
and Pertussis. 
TABLE 9-1 IDENTIFY AND EVALUATE VACCINE GROUP PROCESS STEPS 
Section 
Activity 
Goal 
9.1 
Apply General Vaccine Group Rules 
The goal of the activity is to two-fold. The first is to apply general vaccine group 
rules which apply to all vaccine groups. The second is to classify the vaccine 
group type (Single Antigen or Multiple Antigen) for subsequent business rule 
sections (9.2 or 9.3). 
9.2 
Single Antigen Vaccine Group 
The goal of this activity is to apply the business rules necessary to generate a 
vaccine group-based forecast in situations where only a single antigen is 
associated with a vaccine group. 
9.3 
Multiple Antigen Vaccine Group 
The goal of this activity is to apply the decision logic and business rules 
necessary to generate a vaccine group-based forecast in situations where more 
than one antigen is associated with a vaccine group. 
 
The following figure provides an illustration of the identifying and evaluating vaccine group process. 
 
FIGURE 9-1 IDENTIFY AND EVALUATE VACCINE GROUP PROCESS MODEL
