TABLE 3-7 Logical Component Date Rules

Business Rule ID | Business Rule
CALCDTAGE-1 | A patient's maximum age date must be calculated as the patient's date of birth plus the maximum age.
CALCDTAGE-2 | A patient's latest recommended age date must be calculated as the patient's date of birth plus the latest recommended age.
CALCDTAGE-3 | A patient's earliest recommended age date must be calculated as the patient's date of birth plus the earliest recommended age.
CALCDTAGE-4 | A patient's minimum age date must be calculated as the patient's date of birth plus the minimum age.
CALCDTAGE-5 | A patient's absolute minimum age date must be calculated as the patient's date of birth plus the absolute minimum age.
CALCDTALLOW-1 | A patient's allowable vaccine type begin age date must be calculated as the patient's date of birth plus the vaccine type begin age of an allowable vaccine.
CALCDTALLOW-2 | A patient's allowable vaccine type end age date must be calculated as the patient's date of birth plus the vaccine type end age of an allowable vaccine.
CALCDTCI-1 | A patient's contraindication begin age date must be calculated as the patient's date of birth plus the contraindication begin age of a contraindication.
CALCDTCI-2 | A patient's contraindication end age date must be calculated as the patient's date of birth plus the contraindication end age of a contraindication.
CALCDTCONFLICT-1 | The conflict begin interval date for a previous vaccine dose administered must be calculated as the date administered of the previous vaccine dose administered plus the conflict begin interval of a vaccine type conflict where all the following are true: • The vaccine type of the current vaccine dose administered is an impacted vaccine type. • The vaccine type of the previous vaccine dose administered is a conflicting vaccine type for the impacted vaccine type.
CALCDTCONFLICT-2 | The conflict end interval date for a previous vaccine dose administered must be calculated as one of the following: • the date administered of the previous vaccine dose administered plus the minimum conflict end interval of a vaccine type conflict if all the following are true: o The vaccine type of the current vaccine dose administered is an impacted vaccine type. o The vaccine type of the previous vaccine dose administered is a conflicting vaccine type for the impacted vaccine type. o The previous vaccine dose administered has one of the following: ▪ an evaluation status of 'Valid' ▪ no evaluation status. • the date administered of the previous vaccine dose administered plus the conflict end interval of a vaccine type conflict if all the following are true: o The vaccine type of the current vaccine dose administered is an impacted vaccine type. o The vaccine type of the previous vaccine dose administered is a conflicting vaccine type for the impacted vaccine type. o The previous vaccine dose administered has an evaluation status. o The previous vaccine dose administered does not have an evaluation status of 'Valid'.
CALCDTCONFLICT-3 | The forecast conflict end date of a vaccine type conflict that impacts a next target dose must be calculated as the date administered of a vaccine dose administered plus the conflict end interval of the vaccine type conflict if all the following are true: • The next target dose is tracked by a series dose that includes a preferable vaccine that is classified by an impacted vaccine type. • The vaccine type of the vaccine dose administered is a conflicting vaccine type for the impacted vaccine type.
