TABLE 9-2 GeneraL Vaccine Group Business Rules

Business Rule ID | Business Rule
FORECASTVG-1 | A patient series forecast must be contained in a vaccine group forecast made for a vaccine group if all the following are true: • The patient series forecast is made from a patient series that is identified as a best patient series. • The best patient series belongs to the series group for which the vaccine group forecast is being made. • The best patient series defines the regimen for an antigen classified by the vaccine group.
FORECASTVG-2 | The adjusted recommended date of a vaccine group forecast must be the latest of the following dates: • The earliest adjusted recommended date of all the patient series forecasts contained in the vaccine group forecast. • The earliest date of the vaccine group forecast.
FORECASTVG-3 | The adjusted past due date of a vaccine group forecast must be the latest of the following dates: • The earliest adjusted past due date of all the patient series forecasts contained in the vaccine group forecast. • The earliest date of the vaccine group forecast.
FORECASTVG-4 | The latest date of a vaccine group forecast must be the earliest latest date of all the patient series forecasts contained in the vaccine group forecast.
FORECASTVG-5 | The unadjusted recommended date of a vaccine group forecast must be the earliest unadjusted recommended date of all the patient series forecasts contained in the vaccine group forecast.
FORECASTVG-6 | The unadjusted past due date of a vaccine group forecast must be the earliest unadjusted past due date of all the patient series forecasts contained in the vaccine group forecast.
FORECASTVG-7 | The forecast reasons explaining a vaccine group forecast must be the forecast reasons of all the patient series forecasts contained in the vaccine group forecast.
FORECASTVG-8 | An antigen must be considered a recommended antigen for a vaccine group forecast if all the following are true: • The antigen is given the regimen of a best patient series. • The best patient series is the basis of a patient series forecast contained in the vaccine group forecast. • The best patient series has a patient series status of 'Not Complete'.
FORECASTVG-9 | A series dose vaccine must be considered a recommended series dose vaccine for a vaccine group forecast if the series dose vaccine is a recommended series dose vaccine for a patient series forecast contained in the vaccine group forecast.
FORECASTDN-2 | The forecast dose number for a vaccine group forecast must be one of the following: • The minimum of the forecast dose numbers of the patient series forecasts contained in the vaccine group forecast if the administer full vaccine group flag is 'Y' for the vaccine group that is the basis of the vaccine group forecast. • The maximum of the forecast dose numbers of the patient series forecasts contained in the vaccine group forecast if the administer full vaccine group flag is 'N' for the vaccine group that is the basis of the vaccine group forecast.
VACCINEGROUP-1 | A vaccine group must be considered a single antigen vaccine group if it classifies exactly one antigen.
