TABLE 7-13 Generate Forecast Date and Recommended Vaccine Business Rules

Business Rule ID | Business Rule
FORECASTDT-1 | The earliest date of a patient series forecast made from a relevant patient series must be the candidate earliest date.
FORECASTDT-2 | The unadjusted recommended date of a patient series forecast must be one of the following: • The earliest recommended age date. • The latest of all earliest recommended interval dates if there is no earliest recommended age date. • The earliest date of the patient series forecast if there is no earliest recommended age date or earliest recommended interval date.
FORECASTDT-3 | The unadjusted past due date of a patient series forecast must be one of the following: • The latest recommended age date minus 1 day. • The latest of all latest recommended interval dates minus 1 day if there is no latest recommended age date. • Blank if there is no latest recommended age date or latest recommended interval date.
FORECASTDT-4 | The latest date of a patient series forecast must be one of the following: • The maximum age date minus 1 day if there is a maximum age date. • Blank if there is no maximum age date.
FORECASTDT-5 | The adjusted recommended date of a patient series forecast must be one of the following: • The earliest date of the patient series forecast. • The unadjusted recommended date of the patient series forecast if it is after the earliest date.
FORECASTDT-6 | The adjusted past due date of a patient series forecast must be one of the following: • The later of the earliest date of the patient series forecast and the unadjusted past due date of the patient series forecast if there is an unadjusted past due date. • Blank if there is no unadjusted past due date.
FORECASTGUIDANCE- 1 | Administrative guidance included in a forecast made for a patient must include all the following: • Administrative guidance pertaining to any antigen series that defines the regimen for a recommended antigen. • Administrative guidance pertaining to any indication for which there is an active patient observation for the patient. • Administrative guidance pertaining to any contraindication for which there is an active patient observation for the patient.
FORECASTRECVAC-1 | A series dose vaccine must be considered a recommended series dose vaccine for a patient series forecast if all the following are true: • The series dose vaccine is a preferable vaccine. • The forecast vaccine type flag of the series dose vaccine is 'Y' • There is no vaccine contraindication involving the vaccine type that is used for the series dose vaccine. • At least one of the following is true: o The earliest date of the patient series forecast is on or after the preferable vaccine type begin age date and before the preferable vaccine type end age date of the series dose vaccine. o The adjusted recommended date of the patient series forecast is on or after the preferable vaccine type begin age date and before the preferable vaccine type end age date of the series dose vaccine.
