TABLE 8-1 Select Best Patient Series Process Steps

Section | Activity | Goal
8.1 | Pre-Filter Patient Series | The goal of this step is to determine which relevant patient series should be excluded and which should be considered a scorable patient series.
8.2 | Identify One Prioritized Patient Series | The goal of this step is to determine if one scorable patient series is superior to the other scorable patient series for each series group.
8.3 | Classify Scorable Patient Series | The goal of this step is to classify where the patient is in the overall path to immunity and pass those scorable patient series on to the next step. Only those scorable patient series with the most likely chance to be considered the best are retained for scoring.
8.4 | Complete Patient Series | The goal of this step is to apply the proper scoring business rules based on results of the Classify Scorable Patient Series step. The scoring business rules will determine the prioritized patient series. Scoring business rules are specific to where the patient is in the overall path to immunity. The complete patient series scoring business rules look at factors important when scorable patient series are complete. Similarly, in-process patient series scoring business rules and no valid doses scoring business rules look at factors important to their respective situation. For any given Series Group, only one set of these scoring business rules will be applied to each scorable patient series as determined by Classify Scorable Patient Series.
8.5 | In-Process Patient Series | The goal of this step is to apply the proper scoring business rules based on results of the Classify Scorable Patient Series step. The scoring business rules will determine the prioritized patient series. Scoring business rules are specific to where the patient is in the overall path to immunity. The complete patient series scoring business rules look at factors important when scorable patient series are complete. Similarly, in-process patient series scoring business rules and no valid doses scoring business rules look at factors important to their respective situation. For any given Series Group, only one set of these scoring business rules will be applied to each scorable patient series as determined by the Classify Scorable Patient Series.
