TABLE 6-24 Vaccine Conflict Business Rules

Business Rule ID | Business Rule
CALCDTCONFLICT-1 | The conflict begin interval date for a previous vaccine dose administered must be calculated as the date administered of the previous vaccine dose administered plus the conflict begin interval of a vaccine type conflict where all the following are true: • The vaccine type of the current vaccine dose administered is an impacted vaccine type. • The vaccine type of the previous vaccine dose administered is a conflicting vaccine type for the impacted vaccine type.
CALCDTCONFLICT-2 | The conflict end interval date for a previous vaccine dose administered must be calculated as one of the following: • the date administered of the previous vaccine dose administered plus the minimum conflict end interval of a vaccine type conflict if all the following are true: o The vaccine type of the current vaccine dose administered is an impacted vaccine type. o The vaccine type of the previous vaccine dose administered is a conflicting vaccine type for the impacted vaccine type. o The previous vaccine dose administered has one of the following: ▪ an evaluation status of 'Valid' ▪ no evaluation status. • the date administered of the previous vaccine dose administered plus the conflict end interval of a vaccine type conflict if all the following are true: o The vaccine type of the current vaccine dose administered is an impacted vaccine type. o The vaccine type of the previous vaccine dose administered is a conflicting vaccine type for the impacted vaccine type. o The previous vaccine dose administered has an evaluation status. o The previous vaccine dose administered does not have an evaluation status of 'Valid'.
CONFLICT-3 | A current vaccine dose administered must be considered an impacted vaccine dose administered if all the following are true for the date administered of the current vaccine dose administered: • It is on or after the conflict begin interval date. • It is before the conflict end interval date.
